Cloud Native Computing Foundation (CNCF)
The Cloud Native Computing Foundation (CNCF) is one of the largest sub-projects hosted by the Linux Foundation. CNCF aims to accelerate the adoption of containers, microservices, and cloud native applications.

CNCF hosts a multitude of projects, with more to be added in the future. CNCF provides resources to each of the projects, but, at the same time, each project continues to operate independently under its pre-existing governance structure and with its existing maintainers. Projects within CNCF are categorized based on their maturity levels: Sandbox, Incubating, and Graduated. At the time of this writing, over a dozen projects had reached Graduated status with many more Incubating and in the Sandbox.

Popular graduated projects (as of March 2024):

Kubernetes container orchestrator
Argo workflow engine for Kubernetes
etcd distributed key-value store
CoreDNS DNS server
containerd container runtime
CRI-O container runtime
Envoy cloud native proxy
Fluentd for unified logging
Flux continuous delivery for Kubernetes
Harbor registry
Helm package management for Kubernetes
Linkerd service mesh for Kubernetes
Open Policy Agent policy engine
Prometheus monitoring system and time series DB
Rook cloud native storage orchestrator for Kubernetes
Key incubating projects:

Buildpacks.io builds application images
Contour ingress controller for Kubernetes
gRPC for remote procedure call (RPC)
CNI for Linux containers networking
Knative serverless containers in Kubernetes
KubeVirt Kubernetes based Virtual Machine manager
Notary for data security
And many more.
There are many dynamic projects in the CNCF Sandbox geared towards metrics, monitoring, identity, scripting, serverless, nodeless, edge, expecting to achieve Incubating and possibly Graduated status. While many active projects are preparing for takeoff, others are being archived once they become less active and no longer in demand. The first projects to be archived are the rkt container runtime, the distributed OpenTracing, Brigade event driven automation tool, and Service Mesh Interface.

The projects under CNCF cover the entire lifecycle of a cloud native application, from its execution using container runtimes, to its monitoring and logging. This is very important to meet the goals of CNCF.
